Featured add-ons are top-quality extensions and themes highlighted on
[AMO](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/extensions/?sort=featured),
Firefox's Add-ons Manager, and across other Mozilla websites. These add-ons
showcase the power of Firefox customization and are useful to a wide audience.

Featured add-ons are chosen by the Featured Add-ons Advisory Board, a small
group of add-on developers and fans from the Mozilla community who have
volunteered to review and vote on nominations.

New [featured add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-
US/firefox/extensions/?sort=featured) are chosen every month.

### Criteria for Featured Add-ons

Before nominating an add-on to be featured, please ensure it meets the
following criteria:

  1. The add-on must have a complete and informative listing on AMO. This means: 
    * a 64-pixel custom icon
    * a clear and concise name (no lengthy keywords)
    * a clear and concise summary of the add-on's functionality
    * detailed description and privacy policy, if applicable
    * updated screenshots of the add-on's functionality
  2. The add-on must have excellent user reviews and any problems or support requests must be promptly addressed by the developer.
  3. The add-on must have a minimum of 500 users.
  4. The add-on must be built with [WebExtensions](https://developer.mozilla.org/Add-ons/WebExtensions) API.
  5. The add-on must be compatible with the latest release of Firefox.
  6. **Most importantly** , the add-on must have wide consumer appeal to Firefox's users and be outstanding in nearly every way: user experience, performance, security, and usefulness or entertainment value. Featured complete themes must also be visually appealing.

### Discovery Pane

The Get Add-ons section (also referred to as the Discovery Pane) in
about:addons serves a distinct editorial function: it is a tightly curated
list of add-ons and themes selected by Mozilla staff to address an array of
the most common user needs (e.g. ad blockers, screenshot tools, etc.). The
Discovery Pane is primarily intended to introduce add-ons to Firefox users who
have limited experience with browser customization. As such, we only select
add-ons that meet the highest standards of functionality, user experience, and
Firefox compatibility.

Only content that is part of AMO’s [Featured Extensions
collection](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-
US/firefox/extensions/?sort=featured) will be considered for the Discovery
Pane; please note that featured content must meet certain
[criteria](https://wiki.mozilla.org/AMO/Featured_Board_Process#Add-
on_Requirements "AMO/Featured Board Process").

Discovery Pane content is updated monthly, though some highly popular add-ons
may remain on the page for an indefinite period of time.

If you’d like to nominate a great add-on for consideration in the Discovery
Pane, please send us a link to the add-on on AMO to **amo-
featured@mozilla.org** and we’ll add your nomination to the editorial review
queue. There’s no need to mention you’re nominating add-ons specifically for
the Discovery Pane, but feel free to note that if you like.

### Nominating an Add-on

If you wish to nominate an add-on to be featured and it meets the criteria
above, send an email to [amo-featured@mozilla.org](mailto:amo-
featured@mozilla.org) with:

  * the add-on name, URL, and whether you are its developer
  * a short explanation of why the add-on has wide appeal and should be featured
  * optionally, links to any external reviews or articles mentioning the add-on

Add-on nominations are reviewed by the Advisory Board once a month (once every
3 months for complete theme nominations). Common reasons for rejection include
lacking wide appeal to consumers, a suboptimal user experience, quality or
security issues, incompatibility, and similarity to another featured add-on.
Rejected add-ons cannot be re-nominated within 3 months.

### Rotating Featured Add-ons

Mozilla and the Featured Add-ons Advisory Board regularly evaluate and rotate
out featured add-ons. Some of the most common reasons for add-ons being
removed from the featured list are:

  * Lack of growth — Add-ons that are featured typically experience a substantial gain in both downloads and active users. If an add-on is not demonstrating growth in any substantial way, that's a good indicator the add-on may not be very useful to our users.
  * Negative reviews — Featured add-ons should have a great experience and very few bugs, so add-ons with many negative reviews may be reconsidered.
  * Incompatibility with upcoming Firefox versions — Featured add-ons are expected to be compatible with stable and beta versions of Firefox. Add-ons not yet compatible with a Beta version of Firefox four weeks before its expected release will lose their featured status.

### Joining the Featured Add-ons Advisory Board

Every six months a new Advisory Board is chosen based on applications from the
add-ons community. Members must:

  * be active members of the add-ons community, whether as a developer, evangelist, or fan
  * commit to trying all the nominations submitted, giving their feedback, and casting their votes every month
  * abstain from voting on add-ons that they have any business or personal affiliations with, as well as direct competitors of any such add-ons

Members of the Mozilla Add-ons team may veto any add-on's selection because of
security, privacy, compatibility, or any other reason, but in general it is up
to the Board to select add-ons to feature.

This featured policy only applies to the addons.mozilla.org global list of
featured add-ons. Add-ons featured in other locations are often pulled from
this list, but Mozilla may feature any add-on in other locations without the
Board's consent. Additionally, locale-specific features override the global
defaults, so if a locale has opted to select its own features, some or all of
the global features may not appear in that locale.

Follow the [Add-ons Blog](http://blog.mozilla.com/addons) or
[@mozamo](http://www.twitter.com/mozamo) on Twitter to learn when the next
application period opens.

_Last updated: January 31, 2013_

How up-and-coming add-ons become featured and what's involved in the process.

