[\n

\n

Functions to internationalize your extension. You can use these APIs to get
localized strings from locale files packaged with your extension, find out the
browser's current language, and find out the value of its [Accept-Language
header](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Content_negotiation#The_Accept-Language_header).

\n

For more details on using i18n for your extension, see:

\n

\n

  * [Internationalization](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Internationalization): a guide to using the WebExtension i18n system.
\n

  * [Locale-Specific Message reference](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/Locale-Specific_Message_reference): extensions supply locale-specific strings in files called `messages.json`. This page describes the format of `messages.json`.
\n

\n

## Types

\n

\n[`i18n.LanguageCode`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-
ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/LanguageCode "The documentation about this has not
yet been written; please consider contributing!")

\n    A [language
tag](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec3.html#sec3.10) such as
`"en-US"` or "`fr`".

\n\n

## Functions

\n

\n[`i18n.getAcceptLanguages()`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-
ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/getAcceptLanguages "Gets the accept-languages of
the browser. This is different from the locale used by the browser. To get the
locale, use i18n.getUILanguage.")

\n    Gets the [accept-languages](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Content_negotiation
#The_Accept-Language_header) of the browser. This is different from the locale
used by the browser. To get the locale, use [`i18n.getUILanguage`](/en-
US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/getUILanguage "Gets the UI
language of the browser. This is different from i18n.getAcceptLanguages which
returns the preferred user languages.").

\n[`i18n.getMessage()`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-
ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/getMessage "Gets the localized string for the
specified message.")

\n    Gets the localized string for the specified message.

\n[`i18n.getUILanguage()`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-
ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/getUILanguage "Gets the UI language of the browser.
This is different from i18n.getAcceptLanguages which returns the preferred
user languages.")

\n    Gets the UI language of the browser. This is different from
[`i18n.getAcceptLanguages`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-
ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/getAcceptLanguages "The documentation about this
has not yet been written; please consider contributing!") which returns the
preferred user languages.

\n[`i18n.detectLanguage()`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-
ons/WebExtensions/API/i18n/detectLanguage "Detects the language of the
provided text using the Compact Language Detector \(CLD\).")

\n    Detects the language of the provided text using the [Compact Language
Detector](https://github.com/CLD2Owners/cld2).

\n\n

\n\n

## Browser compatibility

\n

| Chrome| Edge| Firefox| Firefox for Android| Opera  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
`LanguageCode`| 47| \n Yes| 45| 48| 34  
`detectLanguage`| 47| \n No| 47| 48| 34  
`getAcceptLanguages`| 47| \n Yes| 47| 48| 34  
`getMessage`| 17| \n Yes *| 45 *| 48| 15  
`getUILanguage`| 35| \n Yes| 47| 48| \n Yes  
  
| Desktop __| Mobile __  
---|---|---  
| Chrome __| Edge __| Firefox __| Opera __| Firefox for Android __  
`LanguageCode`|  \nFull support\n\n 47| \nFull support\n\n Yes| \nFull
support\n\n 45| \nFull support\n\n 34| \nFull support\n\n 48  
`detectLanguage`| \nFull support\n\n 47| \nNo support\n\n No| \nFull
support\n\n 47| \nFull support\n\n 34| \nFull support\n\n 48  
`getAcceptLanguages`| \nFull support\n\n 47| \nFull support\n\n Yes| \nFull
support\n\n 47| \nFull support\n\n 34| \nFull support\n\n 48  
`getMessage`| \nFull support\n\n 17| \nFull support\n\n Yes

Notes __

\nFull support\n\n Yes

Notes __

     Notes __Throws an exception instead returning an empty string if the message does not exist.
     Notes __Expects substitutions to be strings, while other browsers allow any value which is then converted to a string.
|  \nFull support\n\n 45

Notes __

\nFull support\n\n 45

Notes __

     Notes __Firefox 47 and earlier returns "??" instead of "" if the message is not found in _locales,[bug 1258199](https://bugzil.la/1258199) changed this act to match Chrome, landed on Firefox 48.
|  \nFull support\n\n 15| \nFull support\n\n 48  
`getUILanguage`| \nFull support\n\n 35| \nFull support\n\n Yes| \nFull
support\n\n 47| \nFull support\n\n Yes| \nFull support\n\n 48  
  
\n

## Example extensions

  * [menu-demo](https://github.com/mdn/webextensions-examples/tree/master/menu-demo)
  * [notify-link-clicks-i18n](https://github.com/mdn/webextensions-examples/tree/master/notify-link-clicks-i18n)

\n

\n\n

 **Acknowledgements** \n

This API is based on Chromium's
[`chrome.i18n`](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/i18n) API. This
documentation is derived from
[`i18n.json`](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/chrome/common/extensions/api/i18n.json)
in the Chromium code.

\n

Microsoft Edge compatibility data is supplied by Microsoft Corporation and is
included here under the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 United States
License.

\n

\n

\n

    
    
    // Copyright 2015 The Chromium Authors. All rights reserved.\n//\n// Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\n// modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are\n// met:\n//\n//    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\n// notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\n//    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above\n// copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer\n// in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\n// distribution.\n//    * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its\n// contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from\n// this software without specific prior written permission.\n//\n// THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\n// "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT\n// LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR\n// A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT\n// OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\n// SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\n// LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\n// DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY\n// THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\n// (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\n// OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\n

\n

\n]

  *[\nFull support\n]: Full support
  *[ \nFull support\n]: Full support
  *[Edge __]: Edge
  *[Opera __]: Opera
  *[\nNo support\n]: No support
  *[Firefox for Android __]: Firefox for Android
  *[Desktop __]: Desktop
  *[Mobile __]: Mobile
  *[Firefox __]: Firefox
  *[Notes __]: See implementation notes
  *[ Notes __]: See implementation notes
  *[Chrome __]: Chrome

