[



## Introducing Lightweight themes



### What are Lightweight themes?



Lightweight themes are easy-to-install, easy-to-use skins that change the look
of your Firefox web browser. There are hundreds of thousands community-
designed themes to choose from, with more added every day. [Start looking here
for designs that fit your style.](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-
US/firefox/themes/)



### What kind of computers and operating systems do Lightweight themes work
with?



Lightweight themes work with any type of computer that has Firefox installed.
This includes Mac, Linux, Windows, and Android platforms.



### What's the difference between Lightweight themes and Complete Themes?



Complete Themes transform the look of your browser with styles for the window
frame, address bar, buttons, tabs, and menus.



Lightweight themes change just the header and footer areas of your browser.
You can instantly preview a design and install it in one click without needing
to restart.



## Installing Lightweight themes



### How do I add Lightweight themes to my Firefox?



In just a few seconds, you can install a theme and transform the look of your
Firefox web browser. Preview any theme by simply mousing over it; the design
appears in your browser header so you can "try it on." When you're ready, just
click the green `Add to Firefox` button. Once a theme is installed, it is
saved in the Add-ons Manager, where you can enable or disable them as you
wish. Simply go to the `Tools` > `Add-ons` menu and click on the `Appearance`
tab.



### Are Lightweight themes free?



Yes. Themes are free to download and free to use.



## Using Lightweight themes



### How do I change my current Lightweight theme?



There are two easy ways to change your theme. You can either:





  * Visit the [gallery](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/themes/), choose your favorite theme, and click on your choice to instantly change the look of your browser.


  * Once a theme is installed, it is saved in the Add-ons Manager, where you can enable or disable them as you wish. Simply go to the `Tools` > `Add-ons` menu and click on the `Appearance` tab.




### If I have a Complete Theme installed, will Lightweight themes still work?



Yes. If you have a non-default Complete Theme installed, Firefox will
automatically switch to a default theme in order to allow you to use your
choice of Lightweight theme designs.



### How do I undo a Lightweight theme?



To undo the design you most recently selected, go to `Tools` > `Add-ons` in
the menu bar and select the `Appearance` tab. Next to the theme you want to
undo, click the `Disable` button.



### How do I provide feedback?



We're always looking for ways to improve themes, and would love to hear what
you think. Visit the [Themes forum](https://discourse.mozilla.org/c/add-
ons/themes) to send us your feedback.



## Creating Your Own Themes



### Can I create my own Theme?



Absolutely! All you need to do is create two graphics files in your favorite
graphics editing program (e.g., Photoshop). To get started [read more about
how to create a theme](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-
US/developers/docs/themes).



### Are there any content guidelines?



Yes. We are big fans of creativity, but want to ensure that the art displayed
in the Themes gallery meets a basic set of guidelines. Please review the
[Terms of Service](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/legal/terms/mozilla/)
and [Conditions of Use](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/legal/acceptable-
use/) for authoritative and complete language.



### Do I still retain ownership over artwork that I upload?



Yes. Your artwork will always be _your_ artwork.



### After creating a Lightweight theme, can I edit the design?



Yes. If at any point you need to edit or delete your theme design after it has
been submitted to the gallery, you can access it from the [Submissions
dashboard](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/developers/addons). From there,
you can view your current designs. By clicking on each, you can make changes
to each design's settings.



### What's the maximum file size allowable for my Lightweight theme?



The theme you upload may not exceed 300 KB for the header or the footer image.



Couldn't find the answer you're looking for? Consider visiting the [Firefox
support](http://support.mozilla.com/search?esab=a&q=themes) website or the
[Themes forum](https://discourse.mozilla.org/c/add-ons/themes) for more help.

]

